typeface-corpus
===============

##OCR Typeface Corpus Repository - Submission Procedures

#Introduction

The following procedures outline the scope, purpose, and process for data, code, and documentation to be submitted to the OCR Typeface Corpus Repository (hereinafter ‘the repository’). Submissions to this repository will help inform and enhance the process of training OCR engines by providing high-quality samples of various typefaces with transcriptions and metadata as well as code and documentation to support this effort.

The repository is initially focused on compiling data that is relevant to the OCR activities conducted in the natural history collections communities and in the digital humanities communities. These communities face the challenge of needing to extract high-quality text from documents and images that contain a variety of typefaces. The goal of this repository is to compile a corpus of typeface samples in standardized formats to help the natural history collection and digital humanities communities significantly improve the quality of text generated by OCR engines such as Tesseract and OCRopus. 

Materials to be deposited

Typeface Data
Each typeface dataset includes images with all the glyphs of the typeface and transcriptions and metadata of each image. These transcriptions and metadata, combined with the typeface images, are in formats that allow the datasets to be utilized as training sets for OCR engines.

Code
While the focus of the repository is on typeface data, code for managing and manipulating the data is within the scope of this repository. 

Documentation
Supporting documentation about typeface datasets, code, OCR engines, and the use of these components in the OCR training process are also within the scope this repository.

Submission Procedures

Typeface Data
The submitter of typeface data should initiate a pull request with additions or modifications to the repository following the format described below. 

Each typeface submitted to the repository will be represented by a unique font identifier that includes the typeface name (ex: Courier) and, optionally, style (ex: bold) and size. The font identifier is used to name the folder which contains all the relevant image files, transcriptions, and metadata files as detailed below.

Folder and File Structure: 
[font_identifier]-[version]/
	README.txt
	glyphs.tif
	glyphs.txt
	glyphs.box	
	sources/
		[source1_id]/
			README.txt
			[source1_id].tif
			[source1_id].txt
			[source1_id].box

The purpose and format of the directories and files are as follows:
[font_identifier]-[version]/ - the directory for a single font or typeface dataset. The directory will be uniquely named based upon the font or typeface name and the source of the font or typeface. The source name should be short but descriptive and can include the typeface foundry, the machine that produced the dataset samples (ex IBM Selectric), or the typeface source publication or document if typeface is unknown.

[font_identifier]-[version]/glyphs.tif - A TIFF file that includes one instance of each glyph in the typeface or font.
[font_identifier]-[version]/glyphs.txt - A text file that includes the ground-truthed OCR or transcription of the glyphs.tif file.
[font_identifier]-[version]/glyphs.box - A text file that includes the character for each glyph in the glyphs.tif file with the box coordinates and page number in the format established by Tesseract 3.x.

[font_identifier]-[version]/sources/ - a directory containing one or more example source datasets that have been ground-truthed. Sources represent fonts “in the wild” and potentially include variations in the quality of the glyphs as represented in the glyphs.tif file.

[font_identifier]-[version]/sources/[source-id] - 
[font_identifier]-[version]/sources/[source-id]/README.txt - a description of the source and any details of the transcription or history of the accompanying files.
[font_identifier]-[version]/sources/[source-id]/source.tif - image of the document in TIFF format
[font_identifier]-[version]/sources/[source-id]/text.text - transcription of the source.
[font_identifier]-[version]/sources/[source-id]/boxes.box - coordinates of each character in Tesseract 3.0 format.

Code and Documentation
Code and documentation can also be submitted by a pull request. The structure of these types of submissions are not as standardized as typeface dataset submissions. If code is not directly related to this repository, then it should probably be submitted to a separate repository but can be linked from documentation in this repository.

Copyright

All code submitted to this repository is licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 3. Images, the content of images, image metadata, and documentation submitted to this repository are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0) license unless otherwise stated in the typeface dataset READEME file.

Acceptance Procedures

Pull requests will be accepted as long as the submission is within the scope of the repository and fulfils the format requirements. The repository reserves the right to reject pull requests at any stage of processing. The repository administrators will notify the submitter of the reason for rejection.  Reject reasons will include (but are not confined to):

•	The deposit does not conform to the agreed submission format;
•	The deposit does not contain the expected content;
•	The deposit is incomplete;
•	The deposit contains an unacceptable level of duplication (within itself and/or with existing content already held by the repository);
•	The deposit includes insufficient metadata.  

Change Procedure

The repository and depositor/donor recognize that these Submission Procedures may require revision from time to time due to discovery of issues during dataset processing and ingest, identification of materials initially omitted from the dataset, changes in the repository administration and/or technical infrastructure, and other causes. These Submission Procedures may be modified as needed upon mutual agreement of the repository and depositor/donor or their successors or heirs.

Portions of this document were adapted from a template created by Chris Prom, Practical-Records Blog
http://e-records.chrisprom.com/recommendations/develop-submissioningest-policies/submission-agreement-form/

